Curiosity
People who are curious are happier, more sociable, healthier, more intelligent and they live longer. 
These are all claims from Todd Kahdan's book Curious, and after having read it one cannot help but embrace curiosity as a 
necessary personality trait. And the good thing is that it is not a fixed mindset: curiosity can be learned.
'Those who are curious pay attention to what they see, smell, feel, taste, and hear, says Roland van der Vorst.
 He looked into the etymological background of the word 'curiosity', which comes from the Latin cura, meaning 'care. 
 Caring for, paying attention to what you notice, starts with curiosity. The beauty of it is that it is about love; 
 love for the longing to know and to discover, and finding this process of wondering important.
But how? What does No School do to trigger people's curiosity?
Martijn Aslander, whom we consider an inspiring and curious person (also see prologue), says: 
'Learning is an expression of curiosity when the motivation to learn its intrinsic? He practices 'hacking' of learning. 
It starts with his morning ritual. Almost every day he reads a random summary of a book on blinkist.com.
 Over the course of one year he reads at least three hundred summaries of randomly chosen books this way.
  What a marvellous idea! Because it takes you out of your bubble and allows you to make more and more connections.
   This is also why Aslander advocates 'curiosity management: you have to be able to translate your curiosity into creating and doing.
 You have to manage it.
Once you have mastered this curiosity, there are great rewards. Our brains experience gaining new knowledge and experiences or 
removing uncertainty as highly pleasant and dopamine is produced in our hippocampus. Dopamine is a neurotransmitter that communicates
 a feeling of reward to the brain. In order to produce an optimal curiosity effect in the adolescent brain, it is therefore important 
  to note that adolescents are in the first place socially curious (Jolles & Keizer).
This is nicely reflected in the famous 'Hole in the Wall' experiment (2013) by Sugata Mitra. He installed a computer in a hole in the
 wall in a slum in India. A little boy discovers it, has no idea what it is, but starts to try things. 
 Soon other children from the neighbourhood gather around the computer.
After three days, all the children know how to use it. 'Without any form of coaching these children teach themselves English.
Ten-year-olds engage with biotechnology. The children came up with original solutions for advanced technical-scientific problems',says Mitra.
'Hole in the Wall' also shows that surprise and disruption make people curious. In Van der Vorst's words: 
'Our curiosity is stimulated when the information we receive lies somewhere between alienation (unattainable, new, incredible,
 uncertain, incomprehensible) and boredom (accessible, identical, known, credible, certain, understandable).'
  So, curiosity and uncertainty go hand in hand. If this step is too exciting, too big, uncertainty wins. 
  Learning out of curiosity is about the subtle balance between surprise and offering grip.
To discover, to surprise, to ask questions, to experience: curiosity is a verb. To No School learning means doing curiosity.
Being active in new contexts, in unexpected constellations, looking across borders, working multidisciplinary, thinking in terms of experiments, and doing.
 People are curious and it is up to us to feed that curiosity. This is why curiosity is the preeminent leitmotif for the No School Manifesto.
 Ilse Ouwens