Kapital
A spectre is haunting the world, the spectre of Neoliberalism...
Neoliberalism, much like Capital, transforms circulation and rights in commodities. The neoliberal logic, as a modern incarnation of capitalism, permeates the whole of our society.
It affects the way we behave, how we think, how we build our relationships, how we make plans for the future, the speed of our daily life and work. And, last but not least, it affects our educational system. The rhetoric of neoliberalism has attempted to conquer the sphere of arts and creativity as well, by trying to strip these words of their meaning, depriving them of their original sense and filling them with market and productivity related semantics.
*Creative economy. 'Creative class'. 'Creative age"...
Our neoliberal society does not value subjectivities and identities and rather focuses on everything that is measurable, accountable, reproducible, and easily disposable. The effects of this are constant cuts in the fields of culture and education.
If you have to be 100% productive, you always have to be on the doing' side of things. If you do not produce, you will be discarded as not being useful. If you only have to 'do', you cannot take the time to sit and think. If you cannot find time to think, you cannot reflect or self-reflect. If you cannot reflect or self-reflect, you lose connection with yourself and consequently to what and who surround you. If you lose these connections, you are lonely, you are alone. Art and art education are first and foremost places of encounter, of exchange, of processes, of co-existence, of creation. And they are the creative spaces for ideas, for (im)materiality, for minds,for bodies, for people. They create spaces for participation, spaces of connection.
Art is political, education is political, creation is political.
We wish to reclaim creativity as a process of learning and failing, reflecting and trying.
We wish to reclaim education as a process of co-creation.
We reclaim the need for creative schools.
*[c]reative school does not mean school of "inventors and discoverers"; it indicates a phase and a method of research and of knowledge, and not a predetermined "programme" with an obligation to originality and innovation at all costs.
It indicates that learning takes place especially through a spontaneous and autonomous effort of the pupil, with the teacher only exercising a function of friendly guide ...
To discover a truth oneself ... is to create?
—Gramsci
Fabiola Camuti
