Magnetism
How can we still learn when the traditional school system comes to an end? When learning becomes a more and more nomadic activity? When the traditional schools are closed?
We can find the answer by looking at nature again. Animals do not need prison walls to learn. Birds and fish have the power to distinguish a magnetic field. They use this natural instinct for navigating in space. The magnetic field helps them to balance between heaven and earth, to stay on the right track, even to create swarms (birds) or schools (fish) with their fellow animals. People also have this natural ability to detect the magnetic field. A magnetic field is a field of attraction.
The human psyche, but the human body too, has senses to find the right direction. Both have the ability to navigate in the right way. The best strategy to spot the best learning places, as fields of attraction, is stimulating this special sense instead of diminishing it by constructing systems of constraint and punishment. These fields of attraction can then be identified by focusing on the free spirits, the connections between people and places. By giving space to this natural field of attraction, the poles will meet.
The magnetic power of a bird's nest or a coral reef is a good illustration of the magnetic relation between the individual and the community. No School as a natural creative movement therefore does not oppose new forms of schooling.
It only criticizes the outdated and de-humanized forms of mass education. It propagates a new school architecture, based on eco-centric principles of open and free spaces, of organic communities where it is possible to rest and find nourishment at the same time. New schools are based on the circular principles of connectivity that draw wandering teachers andlearners in a natural way. The new techniques of the twenty-first century are not our enemies. They can even help us in creating these new spots to enter and leave in a self-evident way, like the fertile relation between the bees and the beehive.
Jeroen Lutters and Fabiola Camuti