Nature
In every walk with Nature one receives far more than he seeks.
-John Muir
4.5 billion years ago, our planet was a primordial toxic soup.
There was no ozone layer protecting it from solar radiation.
Little atmospheric oxygen, and, of course, no life. Roughly 3.8 billion years ago, life mysteriously appeared, and life has been learning since. Over eons, life has shaped its surroundings to be more conducive to more forms of life: photosynthesis converted carbon dioxide into oxygen and sunlight into chemical energy, enabling life for aerobic organisms like us! Microbes turned rock substrates into soil providing fertile ground for plants. Food webs balanced predators and prey yielding environmental niches for diversity to flourish. In short, as Janine Benyus eloquently states:
'Life creates conditions conducive to life.
Creating conditions conducive to life is, according to biomimicry, the most important lesson we have to learn as a species. The term 'biomimicry' comes from the Greek words bios, meaning life, and mimesis, meaning to imitate. It's learning from Nature's models, its forms, processes and systems, in order to find solutions to human problems. By emulating Nature's patterns, we can create new ways of living and of designing policies and products that are well-adapted to life on Earth.
Biomimicry has brought about non-toxic glue inspired by mussels; solar cells made like leaves; morpho has inspired textiles without metal-containing dyes, and harvesting water from fog like a beetle. Carbon-sequestering cement inspired by corals, and energy-efficient wind turbines inspired by schooling fish are other examples of biomimicry being used tocreate healthier products. Nowadays, biomimicry is being embraced as an interdisciplinary way to move beyond current definitions of sustainability towards regenerative design.
Biomimicry can also be used to create new organizational structures and systems. The US Green Building Council replaced their hierarchical, top-down approach with a more flexible one that created a stronger sense of community and connectedness among members. Their inspiration came from mycorrhiza fungi, which grow (underground) in a mutualistic relationship with trees, sharing and circulating nutrients among them. Margaret Wheatley describes the example of a junior high school that created a complex and orderly system from a few simple patterns, resembling the way self-organization works in flocks of birds and schools of fish.
Most schools have many rules and procedures to 'police' early teens. Not this school. They operate on just three very simple rules. All staff, teachers, and students know the rules and use them to deal with all situations:
1. Take care of yourself;
2. Take care of each other;
3. Take care of this place.
One definition of 'life' in biology is that something is alive if it is capable of reproducing itself. This is known as 'auto-poiesis, from the same root as 'poetry. Wheatley describes this as
*every living being —every microbe, every person-develops and changes because it has the freedom to create and preserve itself. Every living being is author of its own existence and continues to create itself through its entire life span. In this definition, freedom is an inalienable condition of life. Life gives to itself the freedom to become, and without that freedom to create there is no life.'
Incorporating biomimicry in (no) schools' curricula is a great way of preparing students to live meaningful lives and align learning with our innate desire to create. There are numerous examples of teaching outdoors, learning math or art by examining spirals in pinecones and sunflowers, or the positioning of leaves (for optimal photosynthesis), which all follow the Fibonacci sequence. One could learn from coconuts or pomelos to create impact-resistant biodegradable packaging. But biomimicry could also redesign educational systems. Why settle for the least harmful alternative when we could have something that is better-something that mimics Nature's success factors of evolution and create optimal conditions for development and growth? From Nature's standpoint, education should be decentralized, self-regulating, cooperative, resourceful, always adapting and shifting in response to new information and changing conditions, optimizing rather than maximizing, active and always in motion, with built-in feedback mechanisms. Education should provide the freedom to create conditions conducive to life!
Saskia van den Muijsenberg
