Spaces
Your environment matters. The space you are given, gives shape. The space you take, is defining. Take the space to dream, to reinvent yourself. Have the courage.
Creativity needs space in order to develop. This is hard work; see it as hardcore fitness. Creativity can be trained, like a muscle. The more you train it, the more effort you put into it and the more experienced you become, the more creative you will be. By engaging in experiments, you will stimulate the development of your creativity and especially of your creative confidence. Once you have more faith in your own creativity, it gives you the freedom to take creative risks, to make mistakes and learn from them.
Developing creative confidence requires its own 'home', a place that is firmly connected to a lively creative community.
This leads to an innovative, hybrid learning environment with new opportunities. Learning, working, playing, and living are all intertwined here. Cooking and eating together stimulates spontaneity, individual initiative, and interaction. The creative community is always and everywhere.
Creativity also requires a change of space. Flexibility, the ability to learn new things and not to be thrown off balance, are skills that are acquired in unknown situations and settings. These will be the most important skills of the future.
In 2050, you will not only have to be able to come up with new Ideas and products, but you will also have to reinvent yourself time and again.
In order to reinvent yourself, you must be clear about what you wish to learn. You have to be able to both converge and diverge. Starting from your learning wish you can create links to other spaces, other environments, other knowledge domains. Creativity is all about making new connections. Don't be afraid to combine relevant developments and inspirations from domains such as the arts, science, technology, psychology, and philosophy. By crossing these borders, co-creation, co-education, and cooperation will follow organically.
Creativity takes its space. You should also literally occupy that space. Show others what you have made, what you've come up with. Prance like a peacock, shout it from the rooftops, paste it onto the wallpaper (not under it), flaunt it in the streets. Creativity only flourishes if you plant seeds, if you move on in interaction with your environment. It's an ongoing process So, have the courage, take that space!
Selma Jokers and Jeanny Kaethoven