Values
Making the simple complicated is commonplace; making the complicated simple, awesomely simple, that's creativity.
-Charles Mingus
All things tend to lose their power because they become more and more all-encompassing and complex. Fine, bright initiatives run aground as a result of additional wishes and demands, changing systems, and input by other players. Products, services, and processes become so complicated that they are no longer workable. And this while designs are known to be more successful by applying simplicity. With Apple, it's the trademark for all their hardware and software.
We see the same thing happening in education. It is a complex fabric that contains legislation, educational models, scheduling, assessment formats, and financial frameworks, which can sometimes obscure initial goals. No School advocates to engage in a new design process for learning in which the value that is provided is in perfect harmony with an intuitive form. This requires a permanent process of simplification and focusing on the essence, as everything tends to become complicated by and of itself.
We want to provide creativity and learning in such a way that users are enthusiastic. In order to transform users into fans, it is important that they experience learning as both valuable and simple. Obviously, not every learning process can be made very simple. The content can be hard and difficult, but the way we present it should be simple, logical, and intuitive all the same. For example, one can learn a lot by playing.
Learning to apply creativity can also benefit from simplicity: for a creative person this starts with very sharply 
defining the real question behind the question. This creates an orderly, clear framework. Formulating a clear, concise question creates space for arriving at impactful solutions. It may seem paradoxical to place creativity in a framework, but targeted assignments directed at both your subconscious and conscious brain tend to yield better results in practice. Having a sharp focus can help creative designers to explore various solutions.
Broad inspiration and handy tools can help the mind accomplish this. And when the right solution to a problem is found, then the infinite honing and simplifying begins. These are mechanisms that work almost automatically with experienced creatives in applied design. For the less experienced creative students, a clear and simple design process can be a marked path to arrive at valuable and simple solutions.
Education is pre-eminently an environment for transferring value, knowledge, and skills. Unfortunately, this doesn't always succeed, because of complexity. Right there lies a treasure-trove for achieving success. And a challenging goal: 'Simplicity, without which no human performance can arrive at perfection.'-Jonathan Swift
Bart Schouten